all right so let's jump into questions
hi dr k i'm a student and ever since the
covid quarantine
and zoom school started happening i
started slacking at school i'm having a
hard time listening in class i'm also
having a hard time doing homework
when i try to do homework or listen i
get doubts in myself and i'm playing get
games instead of facing things and
dealing with them
i'm also never submit projects and
almost never get a good score and i know
i can do better but i find it
frustrating instead
of helping how do i deal with it how do
i focus on zoom and start to do homework
thanks in advance okay this is a great
question
um and a little bit unfortunate so
here's the thing so i
um so i work with a lot of students
and the sad truth is that covid makes
school way
harder so the first thing that i want
you guys to do the
first thing you have to do is cut
yourself some slack
okay that's number one like school is
just
harder during covid like gpas are
dropping across the board
the number of patients that i've had to
write so
depression is like 300 worse the number
of letters that i've had to write to
students
giving them like medical excuses to
withdraw from the semester
has been like i've written more letters
in the last
six months than i have in the last six
years
um so the simple truth is that school is
harder
okay so we're not
the school curriculum is not designed to
be delivered over zoom
there are a lot of problems with the
school curriculum but just how we do
school in general
um like for example we have you know
people going to individual lectures when
you have these resources like khan
academy that are just better than like
of math teachers out there so i don't
know why we're paying all these math
teachers to
you know teach math when you can just
watch khan academy which is what a lot
of students do nowadays you see this in
medicine too where everyone like
you have all these lectures from these
professors that are boring
um and then you've got these people like
you know pathoma or hussein satar or
first aid or like these other like
brilliant lecturers who just
explain things so well and i don't know
why we don't just have
education being like this is the cool
thing about the internet right
is that you actually now have access to
the best teachers in the world
i don't know why we're not having those
people teach all of our classes to
everyone
anyway i have a whole rant on the
education system that i'll do one day
um and how it's outdated but anyway so
the first thing to understand is that
like school is not designed for
zoom so it's gonna be tough okay so give
yourself a little bit of slack
but if we kind of look at this what we
see is i know i can do better but i find
it frustrated instead of helping
so this is the so not only is it hard
but
this person is beating themselves up for
not doing a good job
so this is the second thing that you
guys need to understand is anytime you
face a challenge in life you got to be
careful
that you don't kick yourself while
you're down
right so like life knocks you down and
then your mind steps in is like oh
you're so dumb why are you failing
and then you beat yourself up and you
kick yourself while you're down like
don't do that
be compassionate towards yourself okay
gotta be careful
help yourself up instead of kicking
yourself while you're down
got it so step number one recognize that
school is not designed to be delivered
over zoom the only way they can keep you
paying attention for an
hour in a boring ass lecture is to have
your ass
in a seat where if you fall asleep or
don't pay attention
you will be publicly shamed and
humiliated that doesn't happen as easily
over zoom
so like that just think about the school
system
that requires that thing to be there in
order for you to pay attention like
that's a
poorly designed system anytime i give a
lecture i give a lecture
last week anytime i give a lecture the
first thing that i say
to everyone so this is what some
professors say they'll say everyone put
away your laptops because it's lecture
time
this is what i say i say everyone take
out your laptops
everyone open up your favorite shopping
website
sports forum news website i want you
guys to open up
youtube whatever you want open up the
most distracting website that you
enjoyed
killing time with on the internet and i
want you to start engaging with that
website and i'm going to start talking
it is my job as a professor to restrain
your attention
everyone open up shopping everyone shop
online and now i'm gonna start lecturing
and if i am not engaging or interesting
enough or relevant enough
then you shouldn't be listening to me
anyway if you're not learning anything
you might as well shop online like who
the [ __ ] cares
okay okay so back to shahar
so school is not designed for zoom so
you just gotta kind of think about that
okay second thing is you got to be
careful about beating yourself up
because the deck is stacked against you
right now you're playing the game on
hard mode so you can't
beat yourself up for like wiping a
couple of times okay
very practically because that's not
helping it doesn't help you learn it
doesn't help you get motivated when you
beat yourself up okay
next thing is that try your best to set
aside
a workspace from like a compute like a
playing space okay
so this can mean so when i was in med
school i you know i had one laptop
right so i would play games on the
laptop and i would study on the laptop
but literally what i did is i had like
two cheap ass desks and i had them right
next to each other and literally what i
would do is pick up my laptop
and move from one desk to another when i
was ready to work and then i would pick
up my laptop and i'd move the same
laptop like
two feet away when it was time to game
and so try to set up an environment that
you only do work in
that you only like when you go to class
like as best as you can go to like a
school room or a different place or like
i don't know exactly what it is
it may be as simple as if you only have
one desk like i have a folding desk like
you know
these picnic table 10 desks and
and like even if it's like shifting my
chair like i don't know if you guys can
see this but
um you know so this is like this is my
desk
okay and like this is where i work so
when i'm doing my writing
i have like papers and stuff over there
all right and like i just shift over a
few feet
let me just screw up my camera but
hopefully that'll be okay
so i still do this where i have like a
long desk and i'll move it over i'll
like
scoop my chair i'll wheel over here when
i'm doing like my writing with like a
pen
okay so control your environment and
only do schoolwork in one place
another thing you can do is if you have
incense you can always light incense
like at the beginning of the day
or anytime you're doing school work or
not anytime because
hopefully you're not liking like instead
it's like 15 times a day but
you know so you can use scent as well to
anchor yourself when you work so this is
where
once again so i have some himalayan sage
here which when i'm having
trouble working a light and it kind of
gets me in the mood
to study and i only light it when i'm
stuck like doing work
okay so that's control your environment
all right so that's the second thing
the third thing when i try to do
homework a listen i get doubts in myself
and i'm playing games instead of facing
things and dealing with them okay so
this
also this has nothing to do with
studying bro
i'm assuming your dude when i try to do
homework or listen i get doubts in
myself and i'm playing games instead of
facing these challenges and dealing with
them
so that's like that's something you've
got to work through right that has
nothing to do with school
so i mean working through that stuff
that's where you can see a therapist
you know if it's a kind of clinical
thing you can do things like journaling
or like go on a hike and just like face
things
this is a great example of um the
staring at a wall exercise that
one of one of our coaching clients came
up with
so like one of my clients came up with
this exercise
and he was like i just sat in front of a
wall and i stared at it and it was like
one of the hardest things i've ever done
because then you've got nothing to
distract you from all the crap
turns out that he's doing fantastic and
it's an awesome exercise
so you can face with things that also
you can get a coach right so this is
what our coaches specialize in so i want
you guys to understand this
our coaches are not mental health
professionals they don't treat
depression or anxiety
but they help with things like this
because this is what they've gone
through right so they have doubts in
themselves they start to play games they
have fears about who they are
and they've like faced them and i think
for the most part i think they're doing
pretty well in terms of overcoming them
i almost never submit projects and
almost never get a good score okay
so this is an outcome you can't really
control this right
if you do everything up here right this
will change on its own you don't need to
worry about this
remember that you can't ever get a good
score on a test i know it sounds weird
can't get a good score on a test the
most you can do is study
if you're super unlucky maybe all the
things that you didn't study happen to
be the questions on the test
so you can't control what score you get
all you can control
is how much effort you put in i know it
sounds weird so for this to change
all of this has to change and if this
changes then this will change on its own
you don't need to worry about it um
how do i focus on zoom and start to do
homework yeah so like i said create a
study space okay
so hopefully that's it so let's think
about how to study during the pandemic
number one acknowledge that school
is not designed to be done in a pandemic
our school curriculum is boring and
necessitates you being
at a physical location away from
distractions in order for you to pay
attention just
think about how terrible that is for a
learning environment
but that's what our school is built on
it's built on
literally going to a place where you
can't do anything else
but listening to this boring crap for
eight hours a day
that's the way that's the foundation of
school it's in the word
school school is not an activity it's a
place but we talk about it like an
activity
so school is not designed to be done
during quarantine so if you're
struggling during quarantine
ain't your fault it's because the
curriculum is awful and predicated on
you being in a boring location for eight
hours a day
the only thing you can do is is like pay
attention
so ain't your fault people are doing
what's no big deal
okay so second tip don't beat yourself
up for not doing a great job at school
because that doesn't help
at all right so like this is the
effects of the pandemic it's really not
your fault
and so you got to be really careful
because what you need is your own
support instead of kicking yourself
while you're down
number three try to recreate the
environment that school
creates so set aside a separate space in
your house as best as you can
where you do your work and you don't do
anything there but work
get yourself some himalayan sage light
it purify that place with all that
spiritual [ __ ] and chakras like go for
it bro
like create a new scent so ascent is
really good at anchoring your brain to a
particular task
so only like that like that every
morning when you sit down to study
and only study there don't ever do don't
ever play games in this separate space
if you need to literally if you only
have a desktop i would say it is an
awesome idea to unplug your desktop and
move it to a different place and then
replug it in
and then on the weekend you move it back
to your gaming zone
and like that's where you game like put
together your desktop like
five times a month great idea so create
a separate environment
use smell to anchor and do your work
there
okay that's number one two and three
number four
is work with someone if you're
struggling either get a therapist or
work with one of our coaches both of
them work and work through some of these
issues
and recognize that the reason that you
like you know play games instead of
facing things you've got to face those
things and deal with them
and as long as that's like rolling
around in your head it's going to be
really hard to do work
okay
new user account on pc that works too
okay so people are saying build your own
school what do you guys think i'm doing
what do you think healthy gamer is
it's school for the mind bros that's
what we're doing there's a lecture i'm
like literally giving a lecture
this is a lecture we call it a lecture
the [ __ ] it's not a cult it's a school
it's like we're doing q a and i'm giving
a lecture look what
that's what we're doing we're building a
new kind of school given our
technological
advances instead of using the old
version we don't want to go back to a
brick and mortar we want to use the
internet to teach people
in an entertaining and meme friendly way
to hold your attention
okay and people think this is a cult
like that's crazy man
schools should be like this schools
should be entertaining and fun
and useful
it's not a cult okay next question